# Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule Zürich / Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zürich

* Belmonte-Baeza, Á., Lee, J., Valsecchi, G. and Hutter, M., 2022. [Meta reinforcement learning for optimal design of legged robots](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9910025). IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 7(4), pp.12134-12141. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "The goal of the design optimization is obtaining a set of design parameters that maximizes a given fitness function. Due to the non-differentiable way we evaluate each design parameter, our design optimizer should be a gradient-free algorithm. We use CMA-ES for the optimization, which has been widely used in the design optimization literature as stated.The design optimization is implemented using PyCMA library. The design optimization is performed for 30 generations, with a population of 35 different designs. The design optimization takes about 1.4 hours of wall clock time using a desktop machine (CPU: AMD Ryzen 7 4800h, GPU: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1650Ti, 16 GB Memory) without parallelization of the evaluation for each member of the population in the CMA-ES algorithm."
* Chen, A., Choo, K., Astrakhantsev, N. and Neupert, T., 2022. [Neural network evolution strategy for solving quantum sign structures](https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.4.L022026). Physical Review Research, 4(2), p.L022026. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "Numerous variations of the ES optimization method exist. In this Letter, we employ the covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES)."
* Eisenring, C., Oliver, S.E., Khatiwala, S. and De Souza, G.F., 2022. [Influence of GEOTRACES data distribution and misfit function choice on objective parameter retrieval in a marine zinc cycle model](https://bg.copernicus.org/articles/19/5079/2022/). Biogeosciences, 19(21), pp.5079-5106. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Arampatzis, G., Wälchli, D., Weber, P., Rästas, H. and Koumoutsakos, P., 2019, June. [(μ, λ)-CCMA-ES for cnstrained otimization with an aplication in parmacodynamics](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3324989.3325725). In Proceedings of latform for Advanced Scientific Computing Conference (pp. 1-9).
* Cantero‐Chinchilla, S., Papadimitriou, C., Chiachío, J., Chiachío, M., Koumoutsakos, P., Fabro, A.T. and Chronopoulos, D., 2022. [Robust optimal sensor configuration using the value of information](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/stc.3143). Structural Control and Health Monitoring, 29(12), p.e3143. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "The CMA-ES as an optimal sensor search algorithm is proven to be almost as effective and in any case more efficient than the exhaustive search. When a number of multiple near-global solutions may exist, the CMA-ES can provide a different optimal sensor configuration from the one provided by the exhaustive search. Nonetheless, these different configurations correspond to almost identical objective values and hence near-optimal sensor configurations."
* Hitz, G., Galceran, E., Garneau, M.È., Pomerleau, F. and Siegwart, R., 2017. [Adaptive continuous‐space informative path planning for online environmental monitoring](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/rob.21722). Journal of Field Robotics, 34(8), pp.1427-1449. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "Because the CMA–ES method is not guaranteed to converge to the global maximum, and given that we cannot formulate lower bounds on the achieved objective value, we evaluate the method empirically in simulations."
  * "First, CMA–ES consistently outperformed BO and more distinctively so at higher numbers of control parameters (i.e., higher dimensional search space). Second, the required computation time was significantly lower for CMA–ES."
* Ulrich, T., 2012. [Exploring structural diversity in evolutionary algorithms](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/bitstream/handle/20.500.11850/56473/eth-6088-02.pdf). ETH Zurich.
