# University of Oxford

* Lu, C., Towers, S. and Foerster, J., 2023. [Arbitrary order meta-learning with simple population-based evolution](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.09478). arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.09478.
* Rückin, J., Magistri, F., Stachniss, C. and Popović, M., 2023. [An informative path planning framework for active learning in UAV-based semantic mapping](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.03347.pdf). arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.03347. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Lange, R.T., Schaul, T., Chen, Y., Lu, C., Zahavy, T., Dalibard, V. and Flennerhag, S., 2023. [Discovering attention-based genetic algorithms via meta-black-box optimization](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2304.03995.pdf). arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.03995.
* Lambert, B., Lei, C.L., Robinson, M., Clerx, M., Creswell, R., Ghosh, S., Tavener, S. and Gavaghan, D.J., 2023. [Autocorrelated measurement processes and inference for ordinary differential equation models of biological systems](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/abs/10.1098/rsif.2022.0725). Journal of the Royal Society Interface, 20(199), p.20220725. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Farm, H.J., Clerx, M., Cooper, F., Polonchuk, L., Wang, K., Gavaghan, D.J. and Lei, C.L., 2023. [Importance of modelling hERG binding in predicting drug-induced action potential prolongations for drug safety assessment](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphar.2023.1110555/pdf). Frontiers in Pharmacology, 14, p.1110555. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Eisenring, C., Oliver, S.E., Khatiwala, S. and De Souza, G.F., 2022. [Influence of GEOTRACES data distribution and misfit function choice on objective parameter retrieval in a marine zinc cycle model](https://bg.copernicus.org/articles/19/5079/2022/). Biogeosciences, 19(21), pp.5079-5106. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Jankowski, J., Brudermüller, L., Hawes, N. and Calinon, S., 2022. [VP-STO: Via-point-based stochastic trajectory optimization for reactive robot behavior](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.04067). arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.04067. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Karnbach, O., 2022. [X-ray Thomson scattering as dynamic temperature and microstructure diagnostic](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:c1e9813c-f1d3-4704-8f05-2b2dc175d964). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Ouatu, I., Spiers, B.T., Aboushelbaya, R., Feng, Q., von der Leyen, M.W., Paddock, R.W., Timmis, R., Ticos, C., Krushelnick, K.M. and Norreys, P.A., 2022. [Ionization states for the multipetawatt laser-QED regime](https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.106.015205). Physical Review E, 106(1), p.015205. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Augustin, D., Walz, A.C., Wang, K., Lambert, B., Clerx, M., Robinson, M. and Gavaghan, D., 2022. [Treatment response prediction: Is model selection unreliable?](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.03.19.483454v1.abstract). bioRxiv, pp.2022-03. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Heighway, P.G. and Wark, J.S., 2022. [Slip competition and rotation suppression in tantalum and copper during dynamic uniaxial compression](https://journals.aps.org/prmaterials/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevMaterials.6.043605). Physical Review Materials, 6(4), p.043605. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Barral, Y.S.H., Shuttleworth, J.G., Clerx, M., Whittaker, D.G., Wang, K., Polonchuk, L., Gavaghan, D.J. and Mirams, G.R., 2022. [A parameter representing missing charge should be considered when calibrating action potential models](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2022.879035/full). Frontiers in Physiology, p.616. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Mohamed, O., Wu, L.Y., Tsikritea, A. and Heazlewood, B.R., 2021. [Optimizing the intensity and purity of a Zeeman-decelerated beam](https://pubs.aip.org/aip/rsi/article-abstract/92/9/093201/789962/Optimizing-the-intensity-and-purity-of-a-Zeeman). Review of Scientific Instruments, 92(9), p.093201. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "Here, we report on the success of using a Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) to optimize the properties of a hydrogen atom beam."
* Kasim, M.F., Watson-Parris, D., Deaconu, L., Oliver, S., Hatfield, P., Froula, D.H., Gregori, G., Jarvis, M., Khatiwala, S., Korenaga, J. and Topp-Mugglestone, J., 2021. [Building high accuracy emulators for scientific simulations with deep neural architecture search](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2632-2153/ac3ffa/meta). Machine Learning: Science and Technology, 3(1), p.015013. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Gundry, L., Guo, S.X., Kennedy, G., Keith, J., Robinson, M., Gavaghan, D., Bond, A.M. and Zhang, J., 2021. [Recent advances and future perspectives for automated parameterisation, Bayesian inference and machine learning in voltammetry](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2021/cc/d0cc07549c). Chemical Communications, 57(15), pp.1855-1870. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Gundry, L., Kennedy, G., Keith, J., Robinson, M., Gavaghan, D., Bond, A.M. and Zhang, J., 2021. [A comparison of Bayesian inference strategies for parameterisation of large amplitude AC voltammetry derived from total current and Fourier transformed versions](https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/celc.202100391). ChemElectroChem, 8(12), pp.2238-2258.
  * "The initial starting point for the MCMC method is an optimum that has been identified via an optimisation algorithm, which in this
study is the stochastic Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) developed by Hansen."
  * "The data optimisation algorithm employed is CMA-ES."
* Heighway, P.G. and Wark, J.S., 2021. [Kinematics of slip-induced rotation for uniaxial shock or ramp compression](https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jap/article/129/8/085109/565766/Kinematics-of-slip-induced-rotation-for-uniaxial). Journal of Applied Physics, 129(8), p.085109. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "To find the solution that satisfies the minimum slip principle is simply a matter of locating the particular value that minimizes the cost function which we do here using a covariance matrix adaptation evolutionary strategy (CMA-ES)."
* Field, D., Ammouche, Y., Peña, J.M. and Jérusalem, A., 2021. [Machine learning based multiscale calibration of mesoscopic constitutive models for composite materials: application to brain white matter](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00466-021-02009-1). Computational Mechanics, 67(6), pp.1629-1643. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "As one cannot a priori exclude the fact that the optimisation problem is nonlinear and non-convex, a derivative-free optimisation method was used. Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA ES), a stochastic evolutionary algorithm, was chosen."
* Confavreux, B., Zenke, F., Agnes, E., Lillicrap, T. and Vogels, T., 2020. [A meta-learning approach to (re) discover plasticity rules that carve a desired function into a neural network](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/file/bdbd5ebfde4934142c8a88e7a3796cd5-Paper.pdf). Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33, pp.16398-16408.
  * "Updates of the plasticity rule were implemented by minimizing using the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) method. We chose CMA-ES instead of a gradient based strategy such as ADAM due to its better scalibilty with network size."
* Lei, C.L., 2020. [Model-driven design and uncertainty quantification for cardiac electrophysiology experiments](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:528c2771-ae4f-4f3c-b649-44904acdf259/download_file?file_format=&safe_filename=Chon_Lok_Lei_DPhil_thesis_2020.pdf&type_of_work=Thesis). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford.
  * "Variant of Evolution Strategy that has been used extensively in the rest of the thesis is the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) by Hansen (2006), as we found it to be particularly useful for our problems."
  * "This was done by minimising the sum of square errors between measured and simulated current during the voltage steps, using the global optimisation method Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES)."
  * "To optimise the model parameters root-mean-square error (RMSE) between the simulated and recorded was minimised using a global optimisation algorithm Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES)."
* Choromanski, K., Pacchiano, A., Parker-Holder, J. and Tang, Y., 2020, June. [Practical nonisotropic monte carlo sampling in high dimensions via determinantal point processes](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v108/choromanski20a/choromanski20a.pdf). In International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics (pp. 1363-1374). PMLR.
  * "We presented a new sampling mechanism DPPMC based on Determinantal Point Processes to improve standard Monte Carlo methods for nonisotropic distributions. We furthermore showed the effectiveness of our approach on several downstream tasks (guided ES search, CMA-ES and trust-region methods for blackbox optimization) and provided theoretical guarantees."
* Mastalli, C., Havoutis, I., Focchi, M., Caldwell, D.G. and Semini, C., 2020. [Motion planning for quadrupedal locomotion: Coupled planning, terrain mapping, and whole-body control](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9133154). IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 36(6), pp.1635-1648. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "We solve this trajectory optimization problem using the covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES). Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) is capable of handling optimization problems that have multiple local minima and discontinuous gradients. An important feature since the terrain cost-map introduces multiple local minima and gradient discontinuity."
* Vié, A., 2020. [Qualities, challenges and future of genetic algorithms](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3726035). Available at SSRN 3726035. [ **GA** ]
* Whittaker, D.G., Clerx, M., Lei, C.L., Christini, D.J. and Mirams, G.R., 2020. [Calibration of ionic and cellular cardiac electrophysiology models](https://wires.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/wsbm.1482). Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Systems Biology and Medicine, 12(4), p.e1482. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "For this example we used a global optimization algorithm (CMA-ES; Hansen, 2006), but similar results are seen with simpler ones such as a simplex algorithm (Nelder & Mead, 1965)."
* Parker-Holder, J., Nguyen, V. and Roberts, S.J., 2020. [Provably efficient online hyperparameter optimization with population-based bandits](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/hash/c7af0926b294e47e52e46cfebe173f20-Abstract.html). Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33, pp.17200-17211. [ **PBT** ]
  * https://oxford-man.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/One-Shot-Bayes-Opt-with-Probabilistic-Population.pdf [ **PBT** ]
* Adjodah, D., Calacci, D., Dubey, A., Goyal, A., Krafft, P.M., Moro, E. and Pentland, A., 2020, May. [Leveraging communication topologies between learning agents in deep reinforcement learning](https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2020/pdfs/p1738.pdf). In Proceedings of International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems (pp. 1738-1740). [ **ES** ]
  * "Given that network effects are generally only significant with large numbers of agents, we choose to build upon one of the DRL algorithms most oriented towards parallelizability and scalability: Evolution Strategies (ES)."
* Toscano, J., Wu, L.Y., Hejduk, M. and Heazlewood, B.R., 2019. [Evolutionary algorithm optimization of Zeeman deceleration: Is it worthwhile for longer decelerators?](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jpca.9b00655). Journal of Physical Chemistry A, 123(25), pp.5388-5394. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Choromanski, K.M., Pacchiano, A., Parker-Holder, J., Tang, Y. and Sindhwani, V., 2019. [From complexity to simplicity: Adaptive es-active subspaces for blackbox optimization](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2019/hash/88bade49e98db8790df275fcebb37a13-Abstract.html). Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32. [ **ES** ]
* Everett, R., 2019. [Strategically training and evaluating agents in procedurally generated environments](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:30a8e308-7670-47d9-a622-778c34757a6f/download_file?file_format=&safe_filename=Everett_2019_Strategically_training_and.pdf&type_of_work=Thesis). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford.
  * "Here, the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) method is used which adaptively changes the size of the search space each generation."
  * "As can be seen, both the Evolution Strategy (ES) and Bayesian Optimisation (BO) are able to end a large number of worlds which lead to significantly lower reward than average. Interestingly, and most notably, BO initially performs the best after fewer samples (i.e more mass on lower rewards, therefore more sample efficient) while ES barely improves upon Random. However, as the number of samples increases, the performance of ES improves relative to BO, eventually ending more optimal solutions than those found by BO and performing significantly better than Random."
* Kasim, M., Topp-Mugglestone, J., Hatfield, P., Froula, D.H., Gregori, G., Jarvis, M. and Vinko, E.V.S., 2019. [A million times speed up in parameters retrieval with deep learning](https://ml4physicalsciences.github.io/2019/files/NeurIPS_ML4PS_2019_13.pdf).
  * "The optimization algorithm we use for this purpose is the SNES due to its proven successes and simplicity. Although the gradient information can be calculated with DENs, we found that using evolutionary-based algorithms (e.g. SNES and CMA-ES) can obtain the best fit parameters faster and more robust than using gradient-descent algorithms (e.g. L-BFGS)."
* Kasim, M.F., Galligan, T.P., Topp-Mugglestone, J., Gregori, G. and Vinko, S.M., 2019. [Inverse problem instabilities in large-scale modeling of matter in extreme conditions](https://pubs.aip.org/aip/pop/article/26/11/112706/262827/Inverse-problem-instabilities-in-large-scale). Physics of Plasmas, 26(11), p.112706.
  * "It is impractical to solve the inversion problem directly via MCMC starting from a random point in parameter space, and so we start by finding the best fit solution using the CMA-ES algorithm to minimize the MCMC burn-in time. This algorithm is seen to scale well with dimensionality and is efficient and robust. The best fit solution is found by minimizing the sum of squared residuals between the experimental data and the simulation results and provides the starting point for the MCMC sampler to explore the space of solutions."
* Clerx, M., Beattie, K.A., Gavaghan, D.J. and Mirams, G.R., 2019. Four ways to fit an ion channel model. Biophysical Journal, 117(12), pp.2420-2437.
  * "In previous work, we found that the global optimization algorithm CMA-ES provided good fits for a range of models from the ion channel to cell scale, and was both fast and behaved reproducibly (returning the same answer when started from different initial guesses in the parameter space). For methods 2–4, we used a CMA-ES population size of 10 and halted the optimization only when the objective function changed by less than 10−11 per iteration for 200 successive iterations."
  * "When deriving experimental time constants, fits to exponential curves were performed using the Nelder-Mead downhill simplex algorithm implemented in SciPy. All other fits were performed using CMA-ES via the PINTS inference framework."
  * https://github.com/CardiacModelling/FourWaysOfFitting
* Adjodah, D., Calacci, D., Dubey, A., Goyal, A., Krafft, P.M., Moro, E. and Pentland, A., [Leveraging communication topologies between learning agents in deep reinforcement learning](https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2020/pdfs/p1738.pdf).
* Clerx, M., Robinson, M., Lambert, B., Lei, C., Ghosh, S., Mirams, G. and Gavaghan, D., 2019. [Probabilistic inference on noisy time series (PINTS)](https://openresearchsoftware.metajnl.com/articles/10.5334/jors.252). Journal of Open Research Software, 7(1).
  * "Currently available optimisers include CMA-ES, XNES, SNES, and Particle Swarm Optimisation (PSO)."
* Toscano, J., 2018. [Cold state-selected radicals for the study of low temperature chemistry](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:6b7a9838-1ada-4c50-b28e-ee8d740ab0ac/download_file?file_format=application%2Fpdf&safe_filename=Jutta%2BToscano_DPhil%2Bthesis.pdf&type_of_work=Thesis). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "The covariance matrix adaptation evolutionary strategy (CMA-ES) is adopted in order to optimise deceleration switching sequences for the operation of a 12-stage Zeeman decelerator."
* Johnstone, R., 2018. [Uncertainty characterisation in action potential modelling for cardiac drug safety](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:0a28829c-828d-4641-bfb0-11193ef47195/download_file?safe_filename=RJ-thesis-final.pdf&file_format=application%2Fpdf&type_of_work=Thesis). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "We use a minimisation algorithm called Covariance Matrix Adaptation – Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES, Hansen, 2006). [ **CMA-ES** ]
Although more initial optimisations provide stronger evidence that a particular point is indeed the global optimum, we choose 32 to make use of the 16 nodes on a single cluster of Oxford’s Advanced Research Computing facilities. So far, we have found 32 to be large enough to provide good fits, and we have not encountered two distinct modes with similarly good fits.
  * "As with all optimisers, CMA-ES can theoretically get stuck in local minima optima and fail to find the global optimum. This is why we start the CMA-ES optimiser from multiple different points in parameter space."
* Robinson, M., Ounnunkad, K., Zhang, J., Gavaghan, D. and Bond, A., 2018. [Integration of heuristic and automated parametrization of three unresolved two‐electron surface‐confined polyoxometalate reduction processes by AC voltammetry](https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/celc.201800950). ChemElectroChem, 5(23), pp.3771-3785. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "Minimising this distance will give an optimal set of parameters. We perform the minimisation using CMA-ES, an evolutionary algorithm for non-linear optimisation."
* Robinson, M., Simonov, A.N., Zhang, J., Bond, A.M. and Gavaghan, D., 2018. [Separating the effects of experimental noise from inherent system variability in voltammetry: The [Fe (CN) 6] 3–/4–process](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.analchem.8b04238). Analytical Chemistry, 91(3), pp.1944-1953. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "To ensure efficiency in our Monte Carlo sampling, we first find the location of the optimum, that is, the maximum likelihood estimate using a standard global minimization algorithm (we use the cma-es algorithm), which we use as a seed point for the MCMC algorithm."
* Gavaghan, D.J., Cooper, J., Daly, A.C., Gill, C., Gillow, K., Robinson, M., Simonov, A.N., Zhang, J. and Bond, A.M., 2018. [Use of Bayesian inference for parameter recovery in DC and AC Voltammetry](https://chemistry-europe.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/celc.201700678). ChemElectroChem, 5(6), pp.917-935. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "To ensure efficiency in our Monte-Carlo sampling, we first find the location of the optimum using a standard global minimisation algorithm (we use both the fminsearch algorithm and the CMA-ES algorithms that are available in the Matlab software package), which we use as a seed point for the MCMC algorithm."
* Daly, A.C., Clerx, M., Beattie, K.A., Cooper, J., Gavaghan, D.J. and Mirams, G.R., 2018. [Reproducible model development in the cardiac electrophysiology Web lab](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079610718300257). Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology, 139, pp.3-14. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "While this could potentially indicate a well-defined and narrow local optimum, the fact that we employed multiple starts to our initial CMA-ES optimisation strengthens our belief that this is indeed a global optimum, and supports our belief that the model is uniquely identifiable under the current experimental set-up."
* Tixier, E., Lombardi, D., Rodriguez, B. and Gerbeau, J.F., 2017. [Modelling variability in cardiac electrophysiology: A moment-matching approach](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsif.2017.0238). Journal of the Royal Society Interface, 14(133), p.20170238. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "We chose the covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES) evolutionary algorithm, for it is currently one of the most performant genetic algorithms and was used successfully in a variety of applications. Furthermore, a Python (as well as other languages) implementation of the CMA-ES algorithm is available online and behaves like a black-box optimization tool."
* Lei, C.L., Wang, K., Clerx, M., Johnstone, R.H., Hortigon-Vinagre, M.P., Zamora, V., Allan, A., Smith, G.L., Gavaghan, D.J., Mirams, G.R. and Polonchuk, L., 2017. [Tailoring mathematical models to stem-cell derived cardiomyocyte lines can improve predictions of drug-induced changes to their electrophysiology](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fphys.2017.00986/). Frontiers in Physiology, 8, p.986. [ **CMA-ES** ]
  * "We then tried to find a weighted sum of these simulated currents that could replicate the measured signal. This was done by minimizing the sum of square errors between measured and simulated current during the voltage steps, using the optimization method CMA-ES (Hansen, 2006)."
* Johnstone, R.H., Gavaghan, D.J., Johnstone, R.H., Bardenet, R., Gavaghan, D.J. and Mirams, G.R., 2017. [Hierarchical Bayesian inference for ion channel screening dose-response data [version 2; peer review: 2 approved]](https://wellcomeopenresearch.org/articles/1-6/v2). Wellcome Open Research, 1.
  * "We first perform a covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy optimisation (CMA-ES, Hansen et al., 2003) to find an optimal starting point for exploring possible parameter sets. We then use an adaptive Metropolis-Hastings MCMC algorithm (Haario et al., 2001) to infer."
* Nocera, E.R., 2017. [Towards a neural network determination of charged pion fragmentation functions](https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.09186). arXiv preprint arXiv:1701.09186.
  * "The FFs are fitted to the data by means of a Covariance Matrix Adaptation-Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) learning algorithm, which ensures an optimal exploration of the parameter space and an efficient minimization."
* Cigari A. [A computational framework for understanding the dynamics of signalling pathways](https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:85851162-c01d-4895-9f1e-5ea80f4b948a/download_file?safe_filename=thesis%2Bone%2Bspace.pdf&file_format=application%2Fpdf&type_of_work=Thesis). Doctoral dissertation, University of Oxford. [ **CMA-ES** ]
* Adamson, H., Robinson, M., Bond, P.S., Soboh, B., Gillow, K., Simonov, A.N., Elton, D.M., Bond, A.M., Sawers, R.G., Gavaghan, D.J. and Parkin, A., 2017. [Analysis of HypD disulfide redox chemistry via optimization of Fourier transformed ac voltammetric data](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.analchem.6b03589). Analytical Chemistry, 89(3), pp.1565-1573.
  * "Minimization of the objective function in this study is done using the CMA-ES method, which is a stochastic, derivativefree global minimization algorithm."
* Kriest, I., Sauerland, V., Khatiwala, S., Srivastav, A. and Oschlies, A., 2017. [Calibrating a global three-dimensional biogeochemical ocean model (MOPS-1.0)](https://gmd.copernicus.org/articles/10/127/2017/). Geoscientific Model Development, 10(1), pp.127-154.
  * "The framework combines an offline approach for transport of biogeochemical tracers with an estimation of distribution algorithm (Covariance Matrix Adaption Evolution Strategy, CMA-ES)."
* Toscano, J., Tauschinsky, A., Dulitz, K., Rennick, C.J., Heazlewood, B.R. and Softley, T.P., 2017. [Zeeman deceleration beyond periodic phase space stability](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1367-2630/aa7ef5/meta). New Journal of Physics, 19(8), p.083016.
  * "Employing a CMA-ES optimisation method could greatly improve the efficiency and operation of similar devices, potentially circumventing the need for longer decelerators in order to access lower final velocities. The method could be used to optimise the sequence for a wide range of desired outputs by modifying the optimisation criteria (i.e. fitness function) of the algorithm."
* Bertone, V., Carrazza, S., Hartland, N.P., Nocera, E.R. and Rojo, J., 2017. [A determination of the fragmentation functions of pions, kaons, and protons with faithful uncertainties: The NNPDF Collaboration](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1140/epjc/s10052-017-5088-y). European Physical Journal C, 77, pp.1-34.
  * "We have used a minimisation procedure based on the CMA-ES family of algorithms. This procedure allows for a more efficient exploration of the parameter space in comparison to the genetic algorithm used in previous NNPDF fits of PDFs."
  * "Also, we implement a non-elitist version of the CMA-ES, whereby each iteration’s best fit is computed by means of weighted average over some number of mutants. In contrast an elitist selection would take only the best mutant from each iteration. In this way the effect of the noise induced by a relatively small dataset should be reduced."
* Tamò, G., Maesani, A., Träger, S., Degiacomi, M.T., Floreano, D. and Dal Peraro, M., 2017. Disentangling constraints using viability evolution principles in integrative modeling of macromolecular assemblies. Scientific Reports, 7(1), pp.1-9.
  * "The memetic Viability Evolution (mViE) algorithm evolves a population of local search units, based on Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (1+1)-CMA-ES enriched with techniques for adapting the covariance matrix and the step-size. The mViE algorithm evolves a population of (1+1)-CMA-ES local search units that are recombined using Differential Evolution (DE) operators in order to perform a global search."
