# Evolutionary Computation (EC) for Materials

* Truong-Quoc, C., Lee, J.Y., Kim, K.S. and Kim, D.N., 2024. [Prediction of DNA origami shape using graph neural network](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-024-01846-8). Nature Materials, pp.1-9. [ **Seoul National University** ]
  * "Here we developed a design optimization procedure by combining the proposed model with the genetic algorithm. It automatically finds the optimal number and location of base pairs to be inserted into or deleted from the reference design required to form the desired shape. The structure evolved to have the target shape from generation to generation by minimizing the root mean square error values between the predicted and target shapes. Using this automated procedure, we could successfully design various curved 6HB structures."
* Wang, H., Song, Y., Huang, G., Ding, F., Ma, L., Tian, N., Qiu, L., Li, X., Zhu, R., Huang, S. and Yan, H., 2024. [Seeded growth of single-crystal black phosphorus nanoribbons](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41563-024-01830-2). Nature Materials, pp.1-9. [ **Fudan University + Shanghai Qi Zhi Institute + Shanghai Research Center for Quantum Sciences + Chinese Academy of Sciences + Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology + University of Science and Technology of China + Shaanxi University of Science & Technology** ]
  * "We explored the reconstructions of the zigzag and armchair edges of multilayer black phosphorus with an unbiased global search, using the Crystal structure AnaLYsis by Particle Swarm Optimization (CALYPSO) software package combined with first-principles calculations. During the global structural search, 60% of the 40 candidates in each generation were generated by the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm, and the remaining 40% were randomly generated. For simplicity, we assumed that the edges were initially passivated by hydrogen atoms. All the structures were optimized by DFT calculations as implemented in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package64,65, with the interaction between valence electrons and ion cores described by the projector augmented-wave method."
  * Wang, Y., Lv, J., Zhu, L. & Ma, Y. Crystal structure prediction via particle-swarm optimization. Phys. Rev. B 82, 094116 (2010).
* Chen, W.T., Park, J.S., Marchioni, J., Millay, S., Yousef, K.M. and Capasso, F., 2023. [Dispersion-engineered metasurfaces reaching broadband 90% relative diffraction efficiency](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-023-38185-2). Nature Communications, 14(1), p.2544. [ **Harvard University + University of Waterloo + Williams College** ]
  * "We further show here that it is possible to tackle this challenge by fine-tuning their individual geometric parameters. The layout shown in [X] is used as an initial input for a particle swarm code paired with Lumerical (a commercial finite-difference time domain solver) for optimization, where the lengths, widths and height of the eight nanostructures are set as variables."
  * "To implement such process,we used Matlab to write a two-variable (phase shifts along x- and y-directions) particle swarm code by using the 1st order grating diffraction efficiency or wavefront aberration function as figure of merit. For the former figure of merit, the 1st-order diffraction efficiency was calculated by Fourier transform and scalar diffraction
theory, then the data was sent back to the Matlab particle swarm algorithm as feedback for the code to find the best shifts. In the latter, we used nanostructure phases from the library and calculated the
wavefront aberration functionwith respect to the target linear one. It is worth mentioning that the above process does not guarantee the global best solution because of approximations. We therefore repeated the above-mentioned process and generated ~30 different metagrating designs. The best one was reported in themain text while a few of the rest are shown in [X]."
* Liu, Y., Wang, R., Wang, Z., Li, D. and Cui, T., 2022. [Formation of twelve-fold iodine coordination at high pressure](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-28083-4). Nature Communications, 13(1), p.412. [ **Jilin University + Ningbo University** ]
  * **Abstract**: "Here, based on the particle swarm optimization method and first-principles calculations, we report an exotically icosahedral cage-like hypercoordinated IN6 compound composed of N6 rings and an unusual iodine−nitrogen covalent bond network. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first halogen compound showing twelve-fold coordination of halogen."
  * 
