# Evolutionary Computation (EC) for Biology and Medicine

* Castanha, P.M., McEnaney, P.J., Park, Y., Bouwer, A., Chaves, E.J., Lins, R.D., Paciaroni, N.G., Dickson, P., Carlson, G., Cordeiro, M.T. and Magalhaes, T., 2024. Identification and characterization of a nonbiological small-molecular mimic of a Zika virus conformational neutralizing epitope. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 121(21), p.e2312755121.
  * "The binding pose prediction of the CZV1-1 adducts was performed using a semiflexible approach coupled to the genetic algorithm of the GOLD software."
  * G. Jones, P. Willett, R. C. Glen, A. R. Leach, R. Taylor, Development and validation of a genetic algorithm for flexible docking. J. Mol. Biol. 267, 727–748 (1997).
* Muenks, A., Zepeda, S., Zhou, G., Veesler, D. and DiMaio, F., 2023. Automatic and accurate ligand structure determination guided by cryo-electron microscopy maps. Nature Communications, 14(1), p.1164. { **University of Washington + Howard Hughes Medical Institute** }
  * "The protein modeling software Rosetta recently incorporated a small molecule force field, Rosetta-GenFF, which accurately models the energetics of arbitrary biomolecules in a manner balanced against Rosetta’s protein force field. Combining this energy model with a genetic-algorithm (GA) optimization method allowing for full receptor side chain flexibility, GALigandDock, yielded superior performance in ligand docking accuracy compared to other state-of-the-art methods."
  * "Here, we leverage the docking power of RosettaGenFF and GA optimization to overcome the challenges ofmodeling smallmolecules at near-atomic resolution."
* Kirouac, D.C., Zmurchok, C., Deyati, A., Sicherman, J., Bond, C. and Zandstra, P.W., 2023. [Deconvolution of clinical variance in CAR-T cell pharmacology and response](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587-023-01687-x). Nature Biotechnology, 41(11), pp.1606-1617. { **Notch Therapeutic + University of British Columbia** }
  * "We used particle swarm optimization (PSO) to estimate model parameters characterizing the three population archetypes. We encoded the model structure in MATLAB SimBiology (R2021a) and used PSO to estimate the model parameters based on minimization of the log mean squared error between model simulations and data, using the ‘particleswarm’ function with 100 particles × 100 iterations and the lower limit of quantification set at 106 total cells. We fit the model separately to the CR, PR and NR populations by running the PSO algorithm 12 times for each population, generating a total of 36 parameter sets for analysis."
  * "We trained a logistic regression-based classifier using a genetic algorithm for feature selection. A genetic algorithm, implemented in R with the glmulti package, was used for feature selection on the 60% training split of the data, using the Akaike information criterion (AIC) with model accuracy as the objective function. For the genetic algorithm, we used a population size of 100 with a mutation rate of 0.001, an immigration rate of 0.3 and a reproduction rate of 0.1. Owing to the stochastic nature of genetic algorithms, this was repeated 2,500 times."
* Micalizzi, D.S., Che, D., Nicholson, B.T., Edd, J.F., Desai, N., Lang, E.R., Toner, M., Maheswaran, S., Ting, D.T. and Haber, D.A., 2022. Targeting breast and pancreatic cancer metastasis using a dual-cadherin antibody. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 119(43), p.e2209563119. [ **Harvard Medical School + Shriners Hospital for Children + Howard Hughes Medical Institute** ]
  * "Protein-protein docking analysis was performed using an algorithm based on SwarmDock which makes docking predictions based on the particle swarm optimization."
  * M. Torchala, P. A. Bates, Predicting the structure of protein-protein complexes using the SwarmDock Web Server. Methods Mol. Biol. 1137, 181–197 (2014).
* Cooley, C.Z., Haskell, M.W., Cauley, S.F., Sappo, C., Lapierre, C.D., Ha, C.G., Stockmann, J.P. and Wald, L.L., 2017. Design of sparse Halbach magnet arrays for portable MRI using a genetic algorithm. IEEE transactions on magnetics, 54(1), pp.1-12. { **Massachusetts General Hospital + Harvard Medical School + Harvard University + Harvard-MIT Division of Health Science and Technology** }
  * **Abstract**: "We present a method for designing an optimized cylindrical Halbach magnet using the genetic algorithm (GA) to achieve either homogeneity (for standard MRI applications) or a favorable spatial encoding field pattern (for rotational spatial encoding applications)."
  * "Because the optimization variables are integer and the appropriate metrics and constraints are non-linear, we use a GA to ensure high-quality designs. Because a simplified model was used to optimize the rSEM magnet and GA does not guarantee a global optimum, the optimization procedure was repeated multiple times and the results were further evaluated with full rSEM imaging simulations."
  * "There are 888 possible locations for the magnets in the full model, therefore M contains 888 variables that may only have values of 0, 1, 2 (3^888 possible designs)."
  * J. H. Holland, Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems: An Introductory Analysis With Applications to Biology, Control and Artificial Intelligence. Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 1992.
  * K. Deb, Optimization for Engineering Design: Algorithms and Examples, 2nd ed. New Delhi, India: PHI, 2013.
  * C. Blum and A. Roli, “Metaheuristics in combinatorial optimization: Overview and conceptual comparison,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 268–308, 2003.
  * K. Deb, “An efficient constraint handling method for genetic algorithms,” Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng., vol. 186, nos. 2–4, pp. 311–338, Jun. 2000.
  * Mixed Integer Optimization—MATLAB & Simulink. Accessed: Jan. 18, 2017. [Online]. Available: https://www.mathworks.com/help/gads/mixed-integer-optimization.html
