# Evolutionary Computation (EC) for Quantum Computing

* Gentile, A.A., Flynn, B., Knauer, S., Wiebe, N., Paesani, S., Granade, C.E., Rarity, J.G., Santagati, R. and Laing, A., 2021. [Learning models of quantum systems from experiments](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41567-021-01201-7). **Nature Physics**, 17(7), pp.837-843. [ **University of Bristol + Qu & Co BV + University of New South Wales + University of Washington + Pacific Northwest National Laboratory + Microsoft Research + International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory + Boehringer-Ingelheim Quantum Lab** ]
  * **Abstract**: "Simulated multi-spin systems, characterized by a space of 1010 possible models, are also investigated by incorporating a genetic algorithm in our protocol, which identifies the target model in 85% of instances."
  * [NeurIPS Workshop on Machine Learning and the Physical Sciences](https://ml4physicalsciences.github.io/2020/files/NeurIPS_ML4PS_2020_52.pdf): Quantum Model Learning Agent
* Lamata, L., Alvarez-Rodriguez, U., Martín-Guerrero, J.D., Sanz, M. and Solano, E., 2018. Quantum autoencoders via quantum adders with genetic algorithms. Quantum Science and Technology, 4(1), p.014007.
* Colless, J.I., Ramasesh, V.V., Dahlen, D., Blok, M.S., Kimchi-Schwartz, M.E., McClean, J.R., Carter, J., de Jong, W.A. and Siddiqi, I., 2018. Computation of molecular spectra on a quantum processor with an error-resilient algorithm. Physical Review X, 8(1), p.011021.
* Li, R., Alvarez-Rodriguez, U., Lamata, L. and Solano, E., 2017. Approximate quantum adders with genetic algorithms: an IBM quantum experience. Quantum Measurements and Quantum Metrology, 4(1), pp.1-7.
