# MNRAS (Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society)

* Bottrell, C., Yesuf, H.M., Popping, G., Omori, K.C., Tang, S., Ding, X., Pillepich, A., Nelson, D., Eisert, L., Gao, H. and Goulding, A.D., 2024. IllustrisTNG in the HSC-SSP: Image data release and the major role of mini mergers as drivers of asymmetry and star formation. Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 527(3), pp.6506-6539. { **PSO** }
  * "Our optimization strategy first uses particle swarm optimization (PSO, Kennedy & Eberhart 1995) to identify a candidate solution. The PSO results (which should already be near the global likelihood-maximizing solution, in principle) are then imported into a more rigorous Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) parameter and error inference using emcee."
* Yuan, S., Hadzhiyska, B., Bose, S., Eisenstein, D.J. and Guo, H., 2021. Evidence for galaxy assembly bias in BOSS CMASS redshift-space galaxy correlation function. Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 502(3), pp.3582-3598. <**CMA-ES**>
  * "To minimize, we utilize a global optimization algorithm known as covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES; Hansen & Ostermeier 2001). CMA-ES is an evolutionary algorithm that stochastically varies and selects on a school of candidate solutions, resembling the evolution of a biological system. In the simplest terms, the algorithm works by updating the mean and covariance matrix of the distribution to increase the probability of previously successful search vectors in each step until the candidate solutions converge to the global optimum. The algorithm also records and exploits the time-wise history of the search for faster stepping while also preventing premature convergence. The specific implementation of CMA-ES we use is part of the publicly available STOCHastic OPtimization for PYthon (STOCHOPY) package."
  * "The key challenge in our HOD global optimization is speed."
  * Hansen N., Ostermeier A., 2001, Evolutionary Comput., 9, 159
